1) Write a Python program to store marks scored in subject “Fundamental of Data Structure” by N students in the class. Write functions to compute following: a) The average score of class b) Highest score and lowest score of class c) Count of students who were absent for the test d) Display mark with highest frequency

2,3) Write a Python program to compute following operations on String: a) To display word with the longest length b) To determines the frequency of occurrence of particular character in the string c) To check whether given string is palindrome or not d) To display index of first appearance of the substring e) To count the occurrences of each word in a given string

4,5) Write a python program to compute following computation on matrix: a) Addition of two matrices b) Subtraction of two matrices c) Multiplication of two matrices d) Transpose of a matrix

6) Write a python program to store second year percentage of students in array. Write function for sorting array of floating point numbers in ascending order using
a) selection sort b) display top five scores.

7) Write a python program to store first year percentage of students in array. Write function for sorting array of floating point numbers in ascending order using
a) Bubble sort b) display top five scores.

8) Write a python program to store first year percentage of students in array. Write function for sorting array of floating point numbers in ascending order using
a) Insertion sort b) display top five scores.

9) Write a python program to store first year percentage of students in array. Write function for sorting array of floating point numbers in ascending order using
a) Shell sort b) display top five scores.

10) Write a python program to store first year percentage of students in array. Write function for sorting array of floating point numbers in ascending order using
a) Quick sort b) display top five scores.

11,12) Department of Computer Engineering has student's club named 'Pinnacle Club'. Students of second, third and final year of department can be granted membership on request. Similarly one may cancel the membership of club. First node is reserved for president of club and last node is reserved for secretary of club. Write C++ program to maintain club member‘s information using singly linked list. Store student PRN and Name. Write functions to: a) Add and delete the members as well as president or even secretary. b) Compute total number of members of club c) Display members d) Two linked lists exists for two divisions. Concatenate two lists.

13) Second year Computer Engineering class, set A of students like Vanilla Ice-cream and set B of students like butterscotch ice-cream. Write C++ program to store two sets using linked list. compute and display- a) Set of students who like both vanilla and butterscotch b) Set of students who like either vanilla or butterscotch or not both c)Number of students who like neither vanilla nor butterscotch.

14) Write C++ program for storing appointment schedule for day. Appointments are booked randomly using linked list. Set start and end time and min and max duration for visit slot. Write functions for- a)Display free slots, b)Book appointment c)Cancel appointment (check validity,time bounds,availability), d)Sort list based on time, e)Sort list based on time using pointer manipulation.

15) In any language program mostly syntax error occurs due to unbalancing delimiter such as (),{},[]. Write C++ program using stack to check whether given expression is well parenthesized or not.

16) Implement C++ program for expression conversion as infix to postfix and its evaluation using stack based on given conditions: 1. Operands and operator, both must be single character. 2. Input Postfix expression must be in a desired format. 3. Only '+', '-', '*' and '/ ' operators are expected.

17) Queues are frequently used in computer programming, and a typical example is the creation of a job queue by an operating system. If the operating system does not use priorities, thenthe jobs are processed in the order they enter the system. Write C++ program for simulating job queue. Write functions to add job and delete job from queue.

18) A double-ended queue (deque) is a linear list in which additions and deletions may be madeat either end. Obtain a data representation mapping a deque into a one- dimensional array. Write C++ program to simulate deque with functions to add and delete elements from either end of the deque.

19) Pizza parlor accepting maximum M orders. Orders are served in first come first served basis. Order once placed cannot be cancelled. Write C++ program to simulate the system using circular queue using array.

20) In second year computer engineering class, group A student’s play cricket, group B students play badminton and group C students play football. Write a Python program using functions to compute following: - a) List of students who play both cricket and badminton b) List of students who play either cricket or badminton but not both c) Number of students who play neither cricket nor badminton d) Number of students who play cricket and football but not badminton. (Note- While realizing the group, duplicate entries should be avoided, Do not use SET built-in functions)

21) Write a python program to maintain club members, sort on roll numbers in ascending order. Write function “Ternary_Search” to search whether particular student is member of club or not. Ternary search is modified binary search that divides array into 3 halves instead of two.

22) The ticket booking system of Cinemax theater has to be implemented using C++ program. There are 10 rows and 7 seats in each row. Doubly circular linked list has to be maintained to keep track of free seats at rows. Assume some random booking to start with. Use array to store pointers (Head pointer) to each row. On demand a) The list of available seats is to be displayed b) The seats are to be booked c) The booking can be cancelled.

23) A palindrome is a string of character that‘s the same forward and backward. Typically, punctuation, capitalization, and spaces are ignored. For example, “Poor Dan is in a droop” is a palindrome, as can be seen by examining the characters “poor danisina droop” and observing that they are the same forward and backward. One way to check for a palindrome is to reverse the characters in the string and then compare with them the original-in a palindrome, the sequence will be identical. Write C++ program with functions- a) To print original string followed by reversed string using stack b) To check whether given string is palindrome or not

24) Write a python program to store first year percentage of students in array. Write function for sorting array of floating point numbers in ascending order using a) Selection Sort b) Bubble sort and display top five scores.
